NARRATOR:
All right, where were we?
Jane and Rafael's
new baby was kidnapped
by the evil Sin Rostro,
also known as Rafael's
stepmother, Rose.
She was operating
a secret plastic-surgery ring
redoing criminals' faces.
But thanks
to Michael's heroics...
I know who has Mateo.
and I know how to get him back.
...they got Mateo back.
Oh, my God.
And everybody
was super grateful.
Also grateful, Petra.
Because the fertility
clinic discovered
one last sample
of Rafael's sperm.
And thanks
to some wise words
from Rafael's sister,
Luisa...
That should have been
your baby.
...a few too many drinks
and a willing turkey baster...
Well, you get the idea.
But she didn't get off
"Scott-free."
I just wanted
to discuss the fact
that you stole
Mr. Solano's sperm.
And let's not forget
Rogelio and Xiomara.
XIOMARA: I totally do.
I totally do too.
NARRATOR:
They're still married from
their drunken Vegas wedding.
But they're planning
to get that annulled.
And, of course, Jane has
a big decision to make.
Who does she love?
Michael or Rafael?
Okay, okay.
Enough guessing.
Let's do this thing.
When Jane Villanueva began
dating Michael Cordero Jr.,
she tried
to take an interest
in the things
that interested him.
The books he liked to read.
Mind-blowing, right?
[MIMICS EXPLOSION]
NARRATOR:
The movies he liked to watch.
How crazy is this?
So crazy.
[SIREN WAILING OVER TV]
And the places
he liked to go.
Which brings us here,
to a campground
in Central Florida,
in the hundred-degree heat.
Hundred and four, actually.
My mistake.
Wow, they said
that's some kind
of record high.
Okay. I'm done.
Uh-uh.
To make up for the heat
and the bugs...
Uh-uh.
...and the rash that you got
from the bug spray,
I have whittled you
a giraffe.
Thank you.
That is so random.
I know.
But it's the closest
to what the stick
looked like, so...
[CHUCKLES]
It's sweet.
You're so sweet.
And I'm fine.
[INSECT BUZZING]
Actually, no,
I'm not. I'm not.
[GRUNTING]
I can't do this.
What?
I hate camping.
And I know you love it,
so I wanted to try it,
but you should know this.
It's never happening again.
And I hope that's not
a deal-breaker.
No, it's not.
I actually can't think
of any deal-breakers here,
to be honest.
Wow.
What?
I'm sorry.
You got the stank like--
What?
My eyes are watering.
No! No.
That's how bad.
You said no deal-breakers.
No. No!
To be honest,
it was the grossest
Jane had ever been...
Until now.
Mm-mm.
Maybe Wednesday?
No. Because that's when
the new neighbors started
with their band practice.
She was up all night.
Slept all day.
Sunday?
No.
Because I prayed for it
in church and it didn't happen.
I'm telling you, Saturday.
That was her last shower.
Wow.
So that's like
a full seven days.
She's finished. Let's go.
Go.
[CLEARS THROAT]
Hey, it's Daddy time.
Hi. Okay.
And you need some Mommy time.
Why don't you hop
in the shower?
Yeah, but I was gonna clean up
a bit first.
Don't be silly! We'll do it!
Let's just take that off.
Wow, a nice hot shower.
I'm so jealous.
Yeah, go on, get in there.
Okay, then.
I guess I'll take a shower.
Might as well.
Hey, just checking in.
Coffee for--
Me. For me.
Michael, Jane is about to jump
in the shower.
Great. Coffee for Rogelio.
Jane, enjoy your shower.
You know what?
I'm exhausted.
I'm just gonna take
a nap instead.
[♪♪]
Oh.
Oh, that's a good burpie.
Yeah.
Just a little spit-up.
Okay, hon.
Time for a reality check.
First off, you are really
kicking ass as a new mom.
Thanks.
Yeah,
I feel like I finally--
Finally got
a little routine down.
And you definitely do.
And on that note...
Hi.
I think it's time
to pop the new-baby bubble.
What do you mean?
Take a shower.
Run a comb through your hair.
Maybe even leave the house?
With Mateo?
Oh, no, no, no.
I'm not ready for that.
Why not?
What if he gets hungry?
Your boobs come with you.
Well,
he's been fussy lately.
You'll soothe him, honey,
or change him.
Maybe just do something simple.
Go to lunch.
Have one
of your boyfriends take you.
Okay, stop with that.
I can't.
It's like an episode
of The Bachelorette out there.
It's not like that.
You know,
with what happened...
we're all
in a different place.
NARRATOR:
Which, for the record,
was true. At first.
[♪♪]
Hey.
Regardless. Romance is the last
thing on anyone's mind.
Gotcha.
Anyone wanna take Jane
out to lunch?
Yeah, let's do it.
Yeah. I'll drive.
Okay, great.
We'll all go to lunch, then.
WOMAN:
And relax. Deep breath in.
And out.
Good. Now lie still
and let the needles work
their fertility magic.
I'll be back in 30 minutes.
[DOOR OPENS THEN CLOSES]
SCOTT: Petra.
Aah!
I can't move my face, Scott,
so you can't see how aggravated
I am with your timing.
Yeah, well, you see my face?
I'm aggravated too.
You're stalling.
[SCOFFS]
I'm not stalling.
NARRATOR:
She was definitely stalling.
I'm laying the groundwork.
It's not every day
I recommend his assistant
to become manager of the lounge.
Executive assistant.
Oh. Well, that's a position
I can get you.
That's what I am.
You have until the end
of the day
or I'm gonna tell Rafael
that you stole his sperm.
Have him sign
my new contract.
[GRUNTS]
Of course I didn't
read the contract.
Who reads contracts?
That's what I have lawyers for.
At least I did, anyway.
You're fired.
No, you go
to the meeting at 2.
Okay, what's going on?
Nothing.
We're being sued
by the producers
of our Vegas show
for half a million dollars.
What?
They said we violated
our contract
by skipping the show
for Matelio's birth.
So in punishment,
they would like us to perform
on one
of their cruise ships.
And?
Cruise ships
is where old people perform.
I mean, who am I, Charo?
Who is a dear friend,
by the way.
I will lay down my life
for her.
But I don't want her career.
How many shows
would we have to do?
I don't know.
I hung up on my former lawyers.
Okay. I guess we'll find out
at the meeting.
Until our annulment on Monday,
I am still your wife.
You get sued, I get sued.
And I am not getting sued.
NARRATOR:
Meanwhile, on the most dramatic
two-on-one date ever...
Okay. So far, so good.
We're out of the house.
Well,
maybe not the most dramatic.
Everything okay?
Yet.
Yeah. The table's
just a little wobbly.
I can take care of that. Got it.
I can do that. Here.
Oh.
RAFAEL: Aah.
I'm fine.
Look, Jane.
There's a four-cheese grilled
cheese here.
Cheese has been giving
the baby gas,
so Jane's off it
until she's done nursing.
That's why cheese
is in quotes.
Soy cheese.
You know what?
I'm in the mood
for a turkey burger,
actually.
[MATEO CRIES]
Oh, sweetie, what's wrong?
Diaper change? He's due for one.
I'll take him.
Okay.
Such a good boy.
You know Mommy needed to escape.
What?
You dove under the table.
This is my family, okay?
What are you even doing here?
I wouldn't be here
if Jane didn't want me here.
Yes, Mr. Sweetface.
Oh, we did it.
Yes, we did.
Our first public
diaper change.
Great. Now you're out
of your bubble, let's talk.
Uh...
It is crazy tense out there,
and you need to make
a decision.
I can help.
Who are you?
Who do you think I am?
My guardian angel?
[LAUGHS]
No. Oh, that's lame.
I'm Bachelorette Jane.
So which guy
are you leaning towards?
I don't know.
I haven't been
thinking like that.
Well, it's time to,
because that situation
is a powder keg.
[BOTH GASP]
NARRATOR:
Oh, my God.
Is that Rose?
[SIGHS]
Oof!
You okay? What's wrong?
I saw a woman
that looked a little like Rose.
First time out of the house,
it's bound to happen.
The city is lousy with tall,
pale redheads.
What?
Nothing.
I didn't mention it,
because it doesn't change
anything.
She's not coming back here.
She got what she wanted.
Now you're scaring me.
What's going on?
There's a possibility that Rose
has had plastic surgery.
A lot of it, so she could look
like anyone, really.
[JANE PANTS]
NARRATOR:
I told you that two-on-one
got dramatic.
[IN SPANISH]
You're back already?
How was it?
NARRATOR: Just Rosy.
Just awkward.
Did Mateo melt down?
Rafael and Michael did.
So?
Who are you leaning towards?
Team Michael. Print
the T-shirts. Make the mugs.
I'm talking to Jane.
There are no teams
in this family.
Exactly. Family first.
JANE:
Yeah.
And all things equal
wouldn't you prefer
to be with the baby's father?
Plus, I mean,
look at the guy.
Abuela.
What?
I'm old, but I'm not blind.
Mami.
[CHUCKLES]
Did you to talk to the neighbors
about their band practice?
Yes I wrote them a note.
I wanted to throw a rock
through the window.
We went with the note.
Thank you.
Oh, okay.
NARRATOR: She's back.
You're on a deserted island
with nothing but a blanket,
a packed lunch and a gazebo.
There's only one guy there.
Who is it?
I have no idea.
I just took a shower.
Okay, different scenario.
You're hiking on a fjord.
Who do you take
into the ice hotel?
Trust falls with...?
Michael.
Bali with...?
Rafael.
Rappel down a building with...?
Neither.
[MUSIC BLARING OVER SPEAKER]
Oh, my God. The neighbors.
[MATEO CRYING]
I can't believe this!
I wrote them such a nice note!
I'll go over there
and talk to them with Mateo.
Right? Nobody can resist
Mr. Sweetface.
Except, apparently,
20-something
wannabe rock stars.
It's the lady with the kid.
Jane, actually. Hi.
And this is Mateo.
Yes. Hi.
So anyway, listen, um...
Excited to have you
in the neighborhood.
Love your sound.
I was just wondering
if maybe
you could not start practice
at 10 p.m.?
Noise ordinance says
we can play till 11.
That's why my dad rented
for us here.
Oh.
Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. No, I get it.
You know, I--
But it's just--
It's something
about the acoustics.
It sounds like
you're right inside my house.
So weird. That's what it sounds
like for us
at 6 in the morning
when that starts howling.
Excuse me?
Noise-canceling
headphones help.
Entitled breeders.
PETRA:
Are you kidding me?
We have to outbid Carton Group.
Twelve million,
when we have no idea
what they're bidding?
Quick clarification. This is
the bid for the charity auction?
No, this is the bid
for the neighboring property.
Oh, my-- Makes more sense.
I was like, "Who wants to go
to a Marlins game so bad?"
NARRATOR:
Ah, yes. Luisa.
She decided to learn
the family business,
get her life back on track.
And why do we want
that property again?
Because if somebody else
buys the land,
then they can block
our views.
Right. Okay.
Oy is all I have
to say to that.
Oh, by the way, I was thinking
about promoting Scott.
Just giving him a shot
at managing the lounge.
Scott my assistant?
Executive assistant.
Why?
I see something in him.
He's smart. He knows a lot.
NARRATOR: About your sperm.
And he's getting
other offers.
I don't wanna lose him.
Okay.
Just send me his résumé.
Great.
Wait.
Who is that?
I've seen him before.
[WOMAN SPEAKING
IN FOREIGN DIALOGUE]
Oh, no.
[KNOCKS ON DOOR]
Oh, good.
My noise-canceling headphones.
Just sign here.
Great. Now give me your baby.
[GASPS]
[SIGHS]
[KNOCKS ON DOOR]
Hey.
Hi.
You seemed
a little freaked out
after the whole Rose thing,
so I thought maybe
a security system would help.
Thank you.
Are there lasers and stuff?
Um... No lasers.
But there are a few menacing
stickers for your window.
This a good time to install it?
Yeah, of course.
I was gonna feed Mateo.
Oh, yeah. Do your thing.
[♪♪]
Michael. Michael.
Yeah? Uh-huh.
I heard a noise outside.
And I saw a shadow
like a bear.
A bear?
Mm-hm.
Oh, my God.
What?
It's a guy
walking to his car.
I'll sleep better knowing you're
on guard with the giraffe.
[CHUCKLES]
Four more hours.
You can do this.
Go to sleep.
I can't sleep.
I'm worried
there could be a deal-breaker.
What?
Because you're a cop.
And you're
a criminal mastermind?
[♪♪]
My grandmother
is undocumented.
That's why she's quiet
around you.
Police make her nervous.
And I'm just worried
it's a problem ethically.
Is she
a criminal mastermind?
Then no.
Still no deal-breakers.
Blah, blah, blah.
History, memory,
he's been there, I get it.
But how does he fit
into your life now?
With Mr. Sweetface?
That's what you have
to figure out.
NARRATOR:
Never was there sounder advice
from a tipsy hallucination.
Okay.
You have to support his head.
Yeah, I know.
I've been around babies.
You have?
Yeah.
The summer
before my parents got divorced.
Oh, hello.
Hi, Mateo.
That time
you were with your aunt
and uncle, fly-fishing?
Well, I was partly there
for the fly-fishing
and partly to take care
of their new baby.
You didn't tell me that.
Well, fly-fishing seemed cooler
than babysitting.
[LAUGHS]
We didn't really do a whole lot
of baby talk before, you know?
No, we didn't.
Maybe we should.
But I mean, like,
are you ready?
Because you weren't
when I was pregnant.
Okay, come on, I mean...
It was pretty shocking.
We were engaged.
He wasn't mine.
I know.
But it's not some
theoretical baby anymore.
It's Mateo.
So yeah, I'm in.
I'm in.
Can I come in?
Hey.
Don't tell me,
don't tell me. Rick.
Lachlan.
We've met several times.
Sorry. Might've been drunk.
But I'm not drunk now,
so you are locked in,
Mr. Lachlan.
What do you want?
NARRATOR:
Now, Luisa may not remember
Lachlan, but I sure do.
Let's take a quick trip
down memory lane, shall we?
You see, first,
Rafael stole Petra
from Lachlan.
Then Lachlan tried
to screw over Rafael.
Instead, Petra and Rafael
screwed over Lachlan.
Then Lachlan and Petra
are screwed.
Then, Lachlan screwed
over Petra,
and Petra and Rafael
screwed over Lachlan.
There.
Now you're all caught up.
I know
about the neighboring property.
It's a short sale. You don't
have time for geological report.
But...
I have a friend
on the inside.
Why should we trust you?
You shouldn't.
In exchange,
I want out of my contract
and a $500,000 bonus.
[♪♪]
[WHIRRING]
You are all set.
Thank you so much.
No worries.
Uh--
[♪♪]
NARRATOR:
It snowed on them once before,
you'll recall.
You should probably go.
Okay.
Oh, my God. It's over.
Give him the rose.
He's so sweet
and sexy and handy
and here
for the right reasons,
and why are you just standing
there?
Because I haven't had
my one-on-one with Rafael yet.
What am I saying?
No. You're right.
We can't get ahead
of ourselves.
Oh, but he's everything.
He's the one, right?
That one?
I'm not wearing that one.
[SHIP HORN BLOWING]
You're wearing
the sailor suit.
[SHIP HORN
CONTINUES BLOWING]
Sorry.
I missed what you said.
I said you're wearing
the sailor suit.
Where would we perform?
You're looking at it.
So you would remove
the buffet
when we perform?
No, you perform
during the buffet.
It's dinner theater.
They eat, you sing.
I cannot believe
what I'm hearing.
Calm down.
I will not calm down.
Nobody eats when
Rogelio de la Vega sings.
They open their mouth
in awe.
They scream, they cheer,
but nobody eats.
I have heard enough.
I refuse to spend
one more minute
on this ship.
[♪♪]
No!
Oh, my God!
[SHIP HORN BLOWING]
I can't believe it.
Who accidentally goes to Cuba?
Rogelio thought
the lawyer said
the meeting was on the ship
at 2.
Turns out we had to be
off the ship before 2.
[MUSIC BLARING OVER SPEAKER]
♪ This is your
Neighborhood lullaby ♪
Oh, my God.
Is that...?
[MATEO CRYING]
Oh.
It's okay. It's okay.
[ROCK MUSIC PLAYING]
They just pointed a big red amp
right at my window.
What?
Yeah.
First, you go over there
and you--
[SPEAKING IN SPANISH]
So they will not turn
around the ship
unless there's an emergency.
And apparently,
being on the ship
does not constitute
as an emergency.
Oh, my God, enough.
Stop being such a baby.
Singing on a cruise ship
may be beneath you,
but frankly,
it is a cool opportunity for me,
and you are ruining it.
NARRATOR:
Uh-oh.
I mean,
Lachlan's numbers make sense.
If this came from anyone else,
I'd be thrilled.
Need to make a call?
No. I can do it after,
because obviously,
I'm in a meeting.
Sorry. Please continue.
Just the idea
of betting our future
on Lachlan.
I know, it's--
What's going on?
Nothing.
Please, Petra, continue.
Pregnant? Are you serious?
Luisa was her gynecologist.
Not a great gynecologist,
granted,
but still,
all the signs are there.
She's stopped eating
soft cheeses.
She's not drinking alcohol.
She's doing
her acupuncture thing again.
Oh, my God. If she is,
this could be the answer
to our prayers.
I mean, she'll focus
on the baby, not you.
[SIGHS]
Oh, my God. Who do you
think the father is?
No idea.
But I feel sorry
for that poor sucker.
NARRATOR:
Yeah, me too.
Oh, grab that.
Enough with the small talk,
Jane. Focus.
Ahem.
So seeing that my mom's away
and she's my night nurse,
I thought Mateo and I
can spend the night
at your place.
Perfecto, an overnight.
Really?
And just the three of us?
Jane?
Sorry. Yes. Yes.
Can you pick up Mateo
real quick?
Sure.
Yeah.
Hi.
NARRATOR: Ooh.
I think she's getting
a rose.
Nope. An amp.
Whoa.
The neighbors don't respond
to nice.
So should I bring
something tonight?
Uh, nothing, no.
I'll take care of everything.
What's happening?
NARRATOR:
Which brings us here,
now, to the...
Fantasy Suite?
Oh. I bet he goes all out.
Like a room full of roses
and champagne fountains
and candles everywhere and--
Oh, my God.
NARRATOR:
Even better.
[♪♪]
You got the swing.
Oh, and the tummy-time mat.
RAFAEL:
And here's a changing station.
There's one in the nursery,
of course, to make it easier.
Oh, and this is a glider,
with a coffee table
for your water
because I know
that nursing makes you thirsty.
Oh, I ordered some food,
so I'll just be right back.
Sit down, please.
Aah. Oh, my God.
I'm freaking out a little.
Plus, I drank too much.
But we have to stay focused
on why we're here.
What does he want, really?
How does he see his life?
What's an ordinary Thursday?
[MATEO CRYING]
Oh, Mateo.
Oh.
It's okay.
ROGELIO:
Fine. I was a baby.
You're too good for this.
That's not why.
As I near 40,
part of myself worries
that I could one day find
myself here permanently.
Like my over-the-hill
friend Charo,
for whom I would walk
over hot coals.
["ISLANDS IN THE STREAM"
PLAYING]
♪ Baby, when I met you
There was peace unknown ♪
♪ I set out to get you
With a fine-toothed comb ♪
♪ I was lost inside ♪
♪ There was something
Going on ♪
♪ Islands in the stream
That is what we are... ♪
NARRATOR:
Can these two harmonize
or what?
Sadly, no one was paying
any attention.
♪ Sail away with me ♪
Until they unveiled
the chocolate fountain.
♪ And we rely
On each other ♪
♪ Islands in the stream
That is what we are ♪
♪ No one in between
How can we be wrong? ♪
♪ Sail away with me
To another world ♪
♪ And we rely
On each other ♪
♪ Uh-huh ♪
♪ From one lover
To another ♪
♪ Uh-huh ♪
♪ From one lover
To another ♪
♪ Uh-huh ♪
♪ From one lover to... ♪
I'm hungry, but we can't stop
for more than a couple minutes
in the first half an hour
or he'll wake up.
Fast food okay?
I love fast food.
I'm not talking sushi
from the supermarket.
I'd never eat sushi
from a supermarket.
So in my previous life,
when I used to go to clubs,
we would always end the night
at 2 a.m.
in a fast-food
drive-through.
What's your go-to?
Well, that depends
on what kind of fries
you're after.
The snack stand,
always solid.
But if you want curly fries,
you gotta go
to Oceanside Burgers.
Unless you prefer
your curly fries spicy,
and then it's Speedy's.
Now, for waffle fries,
I recommend Big Ronnie's
or Burger Bonanza
if you're craving tater tots,
which I don't even really
consider fries.
Spicy waffle?
Game on.
I agree. Objectively,
he is in the top five percent
of cuteness.
I know.
When you add in his personality,
it's like, forget about it.
He has a personality?
Absolutely.
Besides fussy?
He's not fussy.
He's opinionated.
He is. Hear me out.
And he's not afraid
to use his voice
to demand change.
I'll bet you
in the baby community,
he would be a real leader.
Just saying.
So, what do you want
in life?
I just mean,
going to clubs until 2 a.m.,
do you miss that?
I miss the fries.
No. Come on, seriously.
Seriously?
You wanna know what I want?
I want this
to just be a regular Thursday
instead of the first time
all week
that I've been truly happy.
[♪♪]
I love you, Jane.
I never stopped loving you.
I'm sorry.
I'm just not ready yet.
OMG. What are you doing?
Just give him the rose
and marry him.
And have sex with him
forever and ever.
[♪♪]
[KNOCK ON DOOR]
RAFAEL: Can you get that?
It's breakfast.
JANE: I'm on it.
Yes.
Good morning.
Morning.
Right here is great.
Thank you.
[GASPS]
Hey. We thought that we would
let you sleep in for once.
No raging neighbors.
[SIGHS]
ROGELIO:
Thank you, God.
Oh, it feels so good
to be back here.
And by here, I don't mean
this closet of the engine room.
I mean here,
naked in bed with you.
Yeah, I got that.
[CHUCKLES THEN SIGHS]
Where did we go wrong?
Well,
you kissed someone else.
I know. And that was
an idiotic thing to do.
But don't you think
you overreacted a little?
I tend
to react very emotionally.
Both my greatest strength...
And greatest weakness.
...and what makes me
a compelling actor.
See, I was thinking
you overreacted
because of your ex-wife--
Please don't say her name.
Okay. Well, she cheated
on you multiple times publicly.
I don't need to relive it,
Xiomara.
But I didn't do that.
We're very different people.
That's true.
She would've definitely told me
about
the chocolate fountain.
[GASPS]
I didn't think you saw.
I have amazing
peripheral vision.
And you're right.
You're very
different people.
And I screwed up.
But I won't again.
Because I love you.
And I love you.
So maybe we shouldn't get
that annulment after all.
NARRATOR:
Also reconsidering
a contract...
Oh, Alice,
thank you so much for your help.
ALICE [OVER PHONE]:
My pleasure, Mr. Solano.
I could talk
about coastal erosion all day.
All right. Bye-bye.
We are not bidding.
What?
Lachlan altered
the geological report.
I just sweet-talked
the secretary
to fax over the original.
The property
is in an erosion zone.
[♪♪]
Yes.
That's what Scott just told me.
What?
How is that possible? What?
Have you had a chance
to glance at his résumé?
Uh, yeah, I did.
Mm.
So he really went to Harvard?
Um, yeah. Mm-hm.
He doesn't like to brag
about it a lot,
but, yeah, he's a...
He's a Harvard man.
NARRATOR:
And suddenly, it hit him.
I see something in him.
I don't wanna lose him.
Who do you think
the father is?
No idea.
But I feel sorry
for that poor sucker.
And just like that,
Rafael realized...
Yes.
Let's give him
that promotion.
Great.
NARRATOR:
Speaking of worst nightmares...
What's going on?
They think we stole something,
Jane.
This amp
was reported stolen.
Oh, no.
They don't speak Spanish,
they want to see my ID.
Okay, go to your room
and find your ID.
This is my fault.
I'm sorry, officers.
I took the amp.
Well, my neighbors are rude,
and they pointed that thing
right at my window on purpose.
I--
Which doesn't matter,
I know.
And I'm gonna return it
right away.
And I'm very, very sorry.
Well, just try to work it out
between you.
Up to them
if they press charges.
And your grandma needs
to sort out her paperwork
so next time,
she'll be able to find it.
Yes, sir.
Thank you. We understand.
[♪♪]
Oh, I'm so sorry.
They're gone. It's fine.
There's no problem.
I know, Abuela. I know.
[SOBBING]
I know.
Again...
I'm so sorry.
If there's anything
I can do--
To make us
not press charges?
We missed our gig
because we didn't have our amp.
Well...
What if I can get you
a better gig?
[♪♪]
BACHELORETTE JANE:
I'm just so confused.
I mean, when I was with Michael,
I can see myself with him.
But then,
when I was with Rafael--
What are you doing?
A confessional.
So I can work out
my feelings.
We have to decide
who to give the final rose to
and who to say goodbye to.
[ALARM WAILING]
[GASPS]
RAFAEL: Jane!
Oh, shoot.
Hey, Jane, what's going on?
It's me. Hello?
Hold on, wait, how--?
How do you turn this off?
I'm coming!
What's going on?
How do I turn this off?
Rafael set off the alarm.
Giraffe.
I know what my name is.
No, it's giraffe.
What's the password?
The password is giraffe.
Hey, is everything okay?
Oh, you gotta be kidding me.
I was nearby.
Really? Is that what you do?
You drive around Jane's house?
Is that your beat?
I got an alert
saying the alarm went off, okay?
If we need a guard,
we'll hire one.
Rafael, stop. He came to help.
How's he helping?
He's the reason
you need a security system.
Even Rose knew
he was obsessed with you.
That's why she took Mateo.
Tell him to move on.
Tell him how you feel, Jane.
Don't, Jane. Don't say it.
Don't. Really. Don't!
I'm in love
with both of you.
[♪♪]
How did I feel?
You ever been punched
in the gut?
And then in the face?
How do you think I felt?
Like my family
was kidnapped again.
Don't ask me that, jackass.
Oh.
I blame you.
I mean, I was feeling good
in my nice little bubble.
XIOMARA:
Hey, I just wanted you
to shower.
I didn't say to tell them
you love them both.
Well, what am I gonna do?
I gotta figure this out.
And you will.
Just don't rush.
I agree.
Hey, Ma, how did you sleep?
Jane told me what happened.
I'm so sorry again.
No, no, no.
It was a good thing
actually.
It's funny.
You rush your decisions
because you hate living
with anything uncertain...
and I do the opposite.
I get so scared
that I can't move.
But...
we're going to change
all that. Hmm?
What do you mean?
I want to apply
for my green card.
Ma.
What?
I thought you were scared
they'd say no
and you'd get deported.
I am.
But I'm scared to continue
like this.
And it's time to do things
differently.
Because
it hung over your childhood,
Xiomara.
And Jane's.
And I don't want it
to hang over Mateo's.
Wow. If I knew
this was gonna happen,
I would've stole
that amp years ago.
[LAUGHING]
[SPEAKING IN SPANISH]
Oh.
[CELL PHONE RINGS]
Hey.
I just wanted to call
because of what Rafael said.
Um, about Mateo's kidnapping
being my fault.
Look, he was mad.
No, he was right.
I am why she took him.
She knew I'd do anything
to get him back.
Stop. By that logic,
it's my fault too.
I mean, I'm the reason
Rose knew how you felt about me.
Do you know anything
about wine?
Because I know dry,
and this isn't dry. It's corked.
Actually, it's not corked.
It's complex.
Who are you?
My husband owns the hotel.
See,
I felt the grapes myself
at this particular vineyard
in Switzerland,
and their unique texture
gives the wine its flavor.
But if it's too advanced
for your palate,
I'd be happy to
bring you chardonnay.
Side of ice, perhaps?
Um, no. This will be fine.
Oh.
Thank you for that.
Oh, my pleasure.
It's Jane, right?
Mm-hm.
We haven't officially met.
I'm Rose.
You know Detective Cordero?
JANE:
I told her all about us,
our relationship...
She seemed so concerned.
She just kept asking
so many questions.
Jane, would you recognize
the wine bottle?
A little wine
for Mrs. de la Vega?
Trust me, you're going to want
to take my name.
You won't believe
how much better
you will be treated due
to my fame.
So here's the thing.
I think we should go through
with the annulment.
What? But-- But I love you.
And I love you.
But I'm also trying
to do things differently.
Now that I'm a grandma
and all.
So I don't wanna ignore
the alarm bell.
What alarm bell?
Luciana.
Please don't say that name.
Rogelio,
you can't even say her name.
You clearly have
some unresolved issues there,
and I think they go deeper
than I realized.
So instead
of getting married,
let's go on a date
and talk about it?
Well,
I've heard wonderful things
about the ice cream
in Havana.
Perhaps
I can buy you a cone?
Or use my fame
to get you one for free?
I'd really like that.
MICHAEL:
Yes?
Yes. I'm positive.
Wow. So it really is Swiss.
I've been
through Rose's passport.
She's never been
to Switzerland.
But you said
she felt those grapes herself.
So she has been there?
But not as Rose Solano.
As whoever she was before.
Finally, we have a place
to start looking.
NARRATOR:
Wait. I've seen
that mountain range before.
[PHONE RINGS]
WOMAN [IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE]:
Do it now!
NARRATOR:
Uh-oh, that can't be good.
Also not good, remember
that geological report?
It was forged.
And Luisa
is about to realize that
in three, two, one.
Oh, my God. Rick.
She'd just have to find Rafael
or Petra to tell them--
[GASPS]
Oh, no, she was about
to tell Petra about Rick.
Sorry, I mean Lachlan.
I'm sorry to make you think
about Rose again.
No. I hate uncertainty.
I feel better knowing
we're doing something.
Yeah. I get that.
So I should go--
So I wanted to--
I just wanted to apologize
for what happened with Rafael.
Oh, yeah,
I'm not worried about it.
Let me ask you something.
Who knows you better,
me or Rafael?
You do.
So I know you're not
in love with him.
You're in love
with the idea of family.
You'll figure that out.
And hopefully,
I'll still be around.
[♪♪]
NARRATOR:
Maybe she was just in love
with the idea of family.
But it was
a very strong pull.
Gun to your head,
who do you choose?
Let's go think about it outside
during sunset.
Ooh, I love sunsets.
[SIGHS]
Let me back in.
We haven't given the final rose.
You can't quit now.
You're in a good mood.
Yup. Because I won
the property bid.
What are you talking about?
We didn't submit.
Right.
But my new employers did.
Because there is no
erosion zone.
Rafael called
the planning commission.
No, he called the number
I provided.
Oh, Alice,
thank you so much for your help.
My pleasure, Mr. Solano.
I could talk
about coastal erosion all day.
That was perfect, Janet.
NARRATOR:
It should be noted
this was precisely
the moment Petra started
to feel sick.
I knew
you wouldn't trust me.
And now my new employers
got the property for cheap,
I got
a half-a-million-dollar bonus,
and we are going
to build a high-rise
that kills your ocean views.
She'd been played.
Rafael had been played.
But how could she focus on that
when she had a stick to pee on?
[PHONE RINGING]
Scott.
Remember?
Harvard's managing
the lounge now.
[PHONE CONTINUES RINGING]
Hello?
Hello, Mr. Solano.
This is Diane calling
from the Miami-Dade
Memorial Fertility Clinic.
What? Why?
I just wanted
to confirm your address
since you'll be receiving
a $127 rebate.
Oh. Oh, okay. For what?
Well,
according to our records,
you've continued
to pay the monthly storage fee.
That's no longer necessary
since Mrs. Solano
took your final sample.
Wait, wait, she--?
She what?
Your wife. Petra Solano.
She came by our office
two weeks ago
to retrieve the sample
we found.
[GASPS]
NARRATOR:
You know what?
This is too good.
I gotta see it again,
instant replay-style,
in slo-mo.
Note the lip snarl
of panic and rage,
the raised eyebrows,
the bulging eyes.
Yes, Rafael,
you are the poor sucker.
Which reminds me,
the results are in.
[♪♪]
Oh, baby.
[RETCHING AND COUGHING]
[♪♪]